Greetings, brothers and sisters.
Welcome to this special edition of JW Broadcasting,
originating from the World Headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses.
Our programs this month and next will feature the entire regional convention program for 2020.
Although the COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in cancellations of gatherings around the world,
Jehovah continues to provide spiritual food at the proper time.
At the time this program was recorded, local governments had already mandated social distancing.
In compliance, we filmed the entire convention program without an audience,
and we are pleased to present it to you now.
In behalf of the governing body and all the brothers and sisters working unitedly here at World Headquarters,
it's my pleasure to extend to every one of you a very warm welcome.
Our convention program this year has, as its theme, always rejoice,
and our theme scripture for this opening day is Philippians 4-4.
Always rejoice in the Lord, again I will say rejoice.
This first session of our convention begins with a music video presentation.
This video highlights the joy we experience when we gather together for worship.
If you have with you a cellular telephone or other electronic device,
please adjust it to a setting that will not disturb others.
And now please enjoy the presentation.
We are delighted that you could join us for this opening session of the Always Rejoice Convention of Jehovah's Witnesses.
Please stand as we sing together song number 111 entitled Our Reasons for Joy.
After the song, you may pause the program for your local opening prayer.
Again, that song number 111, please be seated.
Is it realistic for us to rejoice at all times?
If so, how is it possible?
Please pay careful attention to Brother Kenneth Cook, a member of the governing body of Jehovah's Witnesses.
As he directs attention to our source of joy in the talk,
why Jehovah is the happy God?
Welcome to the 2020 Always Rejoice Regional Convention of Jehovah's Witnesses.
From the start, we wish to convey to you greetings from the governing body and the entire Bethel family.
And we want you to know that we love you and we keep you in our prayers.
So now, whether you are watching this from home or from some other location,
this is our convention for 2020.
And what an encouraging theme.
Always rejoice.
We need to discuss this subject now more than ever before, don't we?
Is it possible to rejoice as the world crumbles around us?
Yes, it is.
Those who love Jehovah can always find reasons to rejoice.
Throughout this convention, we will discuss four things that will help us to rejoice.
What are they?
Number one, we will consider the reasons we have for rejoicing.
Two, we will examine how we can cultivate godly joy.
Three, we will look at how we can maintain joy despite trials.
And four, we will discuss how to express joy.
That is the joy we receive from serving Jehovah.
Now, let's lay the foundation for all of this by first answering the question,
what is true joy?
What is commonly called joy is an emotion that is stirred by a feeling of well-being,
by a sense of success, or because of expecting something good.
And for this reason, joy may seem to come and go depending on what is happening around us.
You might call it circumstantial joy,
but that is not the case with true joy.
Why?
Because true joy, godly joy, is an aspect of the fruitage of God's Holy Spirit.
True joy is a quality of the heart that is not dependent on external things happening around us.
This godly quality comes from knowing that you have the truth,
that you are doing what pleases God,
and that your kingdom hope is certain to be fulfilled.
So then, we see there's a big difference between having circumstantial joy
and having joy of Holy Spirit.
This is illustrated for us in the Scriptures by the example of the Christians in Thessalonica.
The Apostle Paul and others helped them to prepare ahead of time
to face persecution with joy and prepare they did.
How?
They became strong in faith.
Let's read about what this did for them at first Thessalonians chapter 1 and verse 6.
As we read the verse, ask yourself,
where did their deep-seated joy come from?
The verse reads,
Godly joy is not a mere personality trait that we are born with then, is it?
And it doesn't come to us simply because of pleasant circumstances.
Joy of Holy Spirit is found deep within us,
and so it should not be confused with simply being cheerful or exuberant.
Godly joy is not superficial.
It's not found in constantly smiling or laughing to show the difference.
Think of a comedian who seems to be able to find what is funny
in just about any situation in life.
Yet deep down inside, he may be very unhappy.
In contrast, like the Christians in Thessalonica,
we can have joy of Holy Spirit even when we are under tribulation.
We may not smile through a bad time,
but our deep inner joy in serving Jehovah is immovable.
It's part of the new personality that true Christians put on in order to be like Christ.
Now, with this basic understanding of Godly joy in mind,
let's give our attention to Brother Stephen Let,
a member of the governing body as he welcomes us to this always rejoice convention.
And please listen carefully as he explains why Godly joy is such a special quality.
Welcome to the always rejoice convention of Jehovah's Witnesses.
We're so happy that you were able to arrange to attend all three days of this convention.
Why were the Apostle Paul's words at Philippians 4.4
chosen as the theme for this year's convention?
Well, over the past four years, the governing body has used conventions
to highlight qualities that endear us to Jehovah
and help us to be victorious in our struggle against Satan and his world.
We've had convention themes that focused on the need for loyalty,
endurance, courage, and love.
This year, the convention theme highlights the need for joy.
At Nehemiah 8.10, we're told the joy of Jehovah is your stronghold.
In the near future, our faith will be tested as never before.
But if we acquire true joy with the help of God's Holy Spirit,
we will be able to stand firm and weather all the storms that come our way.
Godly joy is a deep-seated quality of the heart.
It's a state of happiness that remains whether the conditions around us are pleasant or not.
In fact, a person can be disturbed about something,
but still have joy in his heart.
For example, the Apostles were flogged for speaking about the Christ.
Yet they went out from before the Sanadran rejoicing
because they had been counted worthy to be dishonored in behalf of his name.
Obviously, they weren't rejoicing over the flogging they had received,
but as servants of God, they found true joy in keeping their integrity to him.
However, is it possible for a Christian always to be rejoicing?
Yes, because true joy is an aspect of the fruitage of God's Holy Spirit.
As an inward quality, joy is not dependent on external things,
not even on our brothers, but it does depend on God's Spirit.
And as already noted, our joy comes from that deep inner satisfaction
of knowing that we have the truth,
that we're doing what pleases Jehovah,
and that our kingdom hope is sure.
So Godly joy is not the transient joy that people experience
because they've secured a well-paying job.
Gone on an exotic vacation, attained fame and prestige,
or acquired some coveted material item, or large sum of money.
No.
True joy has to be cultivated by means of Holy Spirit.
To obtain Jehovah's Holy Spirit, we have to draw close to him
and give him exclusive devotion.
At Acts 532, we're told that God gives Holy Spirit
to those obeying him as ruler.
During these three days, the convention program
will help us to deepen our appreciation for Godly joy.
We'll learn what true joy is, how to cultivate it,
how to maintain it during difficult times
and how to display it as it wells up in our hearts.
Such joy will clearly identify us as disciples of Jesus,
and it will enable us to serve as beacons of light
in this dark world and draw others to our happy God.
You'll note that nearly the entire second day
has been devoted to the joy of disciple making.
Godly joy will help us to face challenges to our integrity.
Remember that it was the joy that was set before him
that helped Jesus to face an excruciating death on a torture stake.
So please pay rapt attention to the talks and videos.
Look up the scriptures and read them along with the speakers.
Thus allowing God's Word to exert its powerful force on your heart.
May this convention become a milestone in your development
as a joyful imitator of our happy God.
How thankful we are that He made us in His image,
giving us the capacity to feel and express Godly joy.
And how thankful we are that He also gives us His Holy Spirit
to help us cultivate that kind of joy.
We love you very much,
and we pray that each one of you will forever respond
to the words of the Psalmist at Psalm 100 verse 2.
Serve Jehovah with rejoicing.
Come into His presence with joyful shouting.
We wish to thank Brother Lead for building up our anticipation
for this always rejoice convention.
As Brother Lead highlighted, Godly joy is indeed a very special quality.
Such true joy comes from Jehovah Himself.
In fact, the Bible says that He always has reasons to rejoice.
So much so that being happy describes His personality.
Let's see this for ourselves as we read 1 Timothy chapter 1 and verse 11.
The context in verses 8 through 10 lists many of the bad qualities
and actions that people of this world display.
But they can change if they listen to our joyful God Jehovah.
With that in mind, note the Apostle Paul's inspired words in verse 11
as he goes on to say,
according to the glorious good news of the happy God
with which I was entrusted.
Why can Jehovah be called happy despite seeing all of the problems
and suffering on the earth?
Well, among the many things that may come happy are the following 4.
1. Jehovah is the Creator.
Everything He does is perfect.
Due to Ronomy 32 and verse 4 says, perfect is His activity.
For this reason, Jehovah can rightly rejoice in His creation.
That fact is undeniable and it's clearly stated in Psalm 104 and verse 31.
As we read it together, consider how determined Jehovah is to keep His joy.
Verse 31 says,
the glory of Jehovah will last forever.
Jehovah will rejoice in His works.
The point?
Jehovah will not be denied.
Well, he he will find joy in what he has accomplished.
No one can take that from him.
He's the happy God whose purpose for man and for the earth will be realized.
Adding to His happiness is reason number 2.
Jehovah is generous and we know what the Bible says about those who give.
And aren't we grateful for all that Jehovah is providing to help us and support us now
through a very difficult time?
Number 3.
Jehovah's heart is made glad by the faithfulness of His servants.
He never forgets all that we have done.
At Proverbs 23, 15, he says,
if your heart becomes wise,
then my own heart will rejoice.
If we remain faithful to Jehovah,
the joy that we can bring to Him will last forever.
And number 4.
Because Jehovah is perfect,
He always does what is right.
He will never do anything to spoil His own happiness.
Well, now that we have looked at what makes Jehovah the happy God,
we want to know what makes us happy.
That is what makes us truly happy.
Deep down inside happy.
After all, it's not difficult to find superficial happiness.
For instance, when you're near someone with a funny laugh,
do you often find yourself laughing as well?
It happens, right?
You may not even know what you're laughing about, true?
The point is this,
it's not all that difficult to experience superficial happiness
but to find lasting joy, takes effort,
and it takes appreciation for what we have.
We will now look at some of the things that bring us real joy.
And as you might expect,
it begins with Jehovah.
Our relationship with Jehovah is our foremost reason for joy.
But not just any relationship.
Take note of what is needed as we read Psalm 16 and verse 11.
As we do so first, notice what Jehovah does.
Next, see what type of relationship we can have with him.
Then, make the connection to having joy.
Psalm 16 verse 11 reads,
You make known to me the path of life.
In your presence is abundant joy.
So again, first, what does Jehovah do?
He kindly makes the path of life known to us.
Next, what type of relationship can we have with him?
A very close one, it says,
as if in his very presence.
Then, we read that in his presence, there's what?
Abundant joy.
Now, along with having a close relationship with Jehovah,
as mentioned there, what else brings us joy?
Jehovah's Holy Spirit does.
His Holy Spirit generates joy in those who receive it.
For this reason, we should pray to receive his Holy Spirit every day.
What else promotes true joy within us?
Our marvelous hope.
Also, we have an abundance of spiritual food,
even under difficult circumstances.
That joyful blessing was foretold in God's Word.
To see it, please go to Isaiah chapter 65 and verses 13 and 14.
Now, in these verses,
Jehovah draws a contrast between good people
and bad people when he says this starting in verse 13.
Therefore, this is what the sovereign Lord Jehovah says.
Look, my servants will eat, but you will go hungry.
Look, my servants will drink, but you will go thirsty.
Look, my servants will rejoice, but you will suffer shame.
Look, my servants will shout joyfully
because of the good condition of the heart,
but you will cry out because of the pain of heart.
Do you see yourself on Jehovah's side of this contrast?
If you've been keeping up with God's organization,
you should feel well fed spiritually.
The bad conditions of this world must not be permitted
to take away from our joy.
As Jehovah said, we shall joyfully.
Why?
Because of the good condition of the heart.
We are more ready than ever before
to see the realization of our hope.
On the other hand,
the world around us is suffering
because they lack clear direction
and they are without real hope.
Throughout our lives, and especially at times like this,
we should take note of Jehovah's help.
When we see that Jehovah is helping us,
we know that he is with us.
We just know it, and this too brings us immense joy.
Also, we find joy in hearing the expressions of faith
that come from our dear brothers and sisters, don't we?
And this is true,
whether we meet together for worship in person
or whether we meet by means of video.
In fact, with so much to add to our inner joy,
we can come to have a joy so strong
and so deep within us that nothing can shake it.
Even persecution, though not enjoyable in itself,
can lead to joy.
How so?
As Jesus said, at Matthew 5, 11 and 12,
happy are you when people reproach you
and persecute you and lyingly say every sort of wicked thing
against you for my sake.
Rejoice and be overjoyed since your reward is great.
So how can we be joyful,
even though we are persecuted
because when we endure persecution with joy
and keep our integrity, we gain a victory
and Jehovah's approval.
Jesus said, rejoice and be overjoyed
since your reward is great.
Well, so far we have defined true joy.
We have examined why Jehovah is called the happy God
and we have reviewed a number of things
that bring us godly joy.
But at this point, you may be wondering,
can I really be happy if I am suffering?
That's a very good question.
So let's look some more at how
or in what sense we can always rejoice.
The fact is that at times all of us may be saddened
by injustice, poor health, unemployment, grief
or other causes for anxiety,
such as mankind has experienced
with this global pandemic
and many of our brothers and sisters
have been affected by such things, haven't they?
Since that is the case,
let's look at how we can apply the words
of our convention theme at Philippians chapter four
and verse four.
Now, as we read verse four, Philippians four four,
imagine the Apostle Paul writing this
while he was in prison bonds or chains.
Yet full of faith, he said this with God's spirit on him.
Always rejoice in the Lord.
Again, I will say rejoice.
Why could Paul say this so emphatically?
Because the Apostle Paul was a man who had true godly joy.
Paul had true joy that was not dependent
on what was happening around him
or what was happening to him.
From a heart filled with faith,
he said that he had joy that was focused in or on the Lord.
That is why Paul was joyful
despite any injustice or anxiety that he experienced.
Always rejoice, he said.
Again, rejoice.
What will help us to apply these inspired words?
Well, like Paul, we too can always rejoice
despite unpleasant circumstances
when we grow in faith and seek true joy.
We too seek joy that's not merely the result
of what happens around us or what happens to us.
When we pray earnestly for God's spirit,
He helps us to succeed
and to keep our deep inner joy,
no matter what trial we may face.
Even more than this, we have Jehovah's example to imitate.
He has maintained his joy despite much heartache.
What has he endured?
Well, over a period of about 4,000 years,
Jehovah saw a number of angels
rebel against his sovereignty.
He saw Adam and Eve rebel.
He watched wickedness spread across the earth.
He saw false worships spread
and this included what his chosen people,
what the Israelites did
as they reverted again and again to apostasy.
Finally, Jehovah saw his enemies,
put his son to death.
But through it all, though unimaginably painful for him,
Jehovah never lost his deep-seated joy.
In fact, imagine his joy
as he watched the vast majority of the angels
keep their integrity.
Imagine his joy
as he watched faithful Israelites
keep their integrity
even when faced with death.
And imagine Jehovah's joy
as he saw thousands turned to following his son
and become true Christians,
a number that today reaches into the millions.
Jehovah has always been able to see the light
beyond the storm.
May we imitate the happy God
and count our blessings every day
even during the most difficult times.
To help us to do this,
we have an entire convention now to enjoy.
All of it centered on the thought
of always rejoicing.
This convention includes talks, symposiums, interviews,
a Bible drama and many videos
that will teach us how to cultivate
and display joy of Holy Spirit.
Please look at the convention program
and let's see what's in store for us.
Our scriptural theme for the first day
is also our convention theme scripture,
Philippians 4-4,
which again says,
always rejoice in the Lord.
Again, I will say rejoice.
We have so much to look forward to
during the first day of this program.
For instance,
the opening symposium will show
that it's Jehovah's advice,
not the world's wisdom
that brings true joy when we follow it.
Then the dramatic Bible reading
will help us to visualize
the events recorded in the book of Ezra.
After that,
we will enjoy a faith strengthening review
of how in the past,
Jehovah saved his people as a group
and as individuals.
During this critical time,
it's important for us to take to heart
what we will hear in that talk,
entitled Rejoice in Jehovah's Acts of Salvation.
In the afternoon session,
the second symposium of the day
will explain how the joy in a family is enhanced
when each member appreciates
and cherishes the others.
The last symposium of the day
will show how creation provides convincing proof
that Jehovah wants us to enjoy life.
This will be followed by a talk that will discuss
how we can find more peace and more joy
by avoiding jealousy and competition.
Finally, the first day concludes with a talk
that will show us how those who truly know Jehovah
are optimistic,
they are generous and patient.
As with each part of this convention,
listen carefully to this talk and titled,
Close Friendship with Jehovah
brings the greatest joy.
We now look ahead to the second day
of our convention program.
The scriptural theme is based on Psalm 105, verse 3.
And there in verse 3,
we are encouraged to boast about his holy name,
let the hearts of those seeking Jehovah rejoice.
One important way to boast about Jehovah's holy name
is by means of our disciple making work.
Tying that in with our convention theme,
the first symposium of the day will leave no doubt
that our joy increases as our skills
in the disciple making work improve.
Following this, the second symposium
will show how we can find joy in the ministry
when we rely on the help that God gives us for this work.
The baptism talk will help those soon to get baptized
to keep in mind what they need to do
in order to be happy now and forever.
In the afternoon portion of the second day's program,
you will hear experiences
during a series of videos that will make you proud
to be part of our international brotherhood
of disciple makers.
The last symposium of day two
will focus on ways you can help your Bible students
to overcome their fears
and experience Jehovah's help and his blessings.
This will be followed by a convention highlight.
Part one of the Bible drama,
the joy of Jehovah is your stronghold.
After that faith strengthening drama,
we will enjoy the final talk of the second day entitled,
Making Disciples Now,
prepares us for new world disciple making.
This talk will help to increase our enthusiasm,
not only for the disciple making work of today,
but also for that yet to come.
Now we go to the final day of our program.
With a scriptural theme taken from Psalm 37 verse four,
the final day focuses our attention
on what lies at the heart of true joy.
Psalm 37 four says,
Find exquisite to light in Jehovah
and he will grant you the desires of your heart.
With Jehovah as our focus,
we start the day with a seven part symposium
that will highlight how we can endure trials with joy.
Afterward during the public Bible discourse,
the speaker will explain what riches God promises
and how they can be obtained.
In the concluding session of our convention,
we will be delighted to watch the thrilling climax
of the Bible drama,
the joy of Jehovah is your stronghold.
Then the convention program will conclude with the talk,
find exquisite to light in Jehovah.
We will all benefit as the speaker reviews
what helps us now and what we have to look forward to
in the future.
Would you like to see a preview of the many videos
we will enjoy at this convention?
We thought so, let's watch.
I tried to look for work, but I was unsuccessful.
It was a struggle even to get water.
And the specialist gave us the diagnosis
of a very aggressive rain tumor.
My negative disposition made me a very impatient,
sarcastic and demanding person.
The fact that I was not appointed as an elder
made me feel disappointed.
Jehovah will act in the near future,
fulfilling all his promises.
And so I'm happy to endure.
And when everything around you is chaotic,
the one thing you have is your relationship with Jehovah.
Regaining joy is a work in progress.
I've always admired the beauty and power of the sea.
It reminds me that the one who created the sea,
it's not hard for him to care for
just one small human like me.
What a wonderful preview.
We have so many blessings to appreciate
and to draw strength from.
Yes, enjoy the blessings of cultivating joy of Holy Spirit.
From this opening discussion,
it's clear that Godly joy does not come from random events
nor does it come from this world.
Rather, Godly joy, true joy,
is an aspect of the fruitage of God's Holy Spirit.
What will be one of the many blessings
that we will experience if we continue to rejoice?
The answer, which this convention will highlight,
is found at 2 Corinthians chapter 13 and verse 11.
Please read it along with me,
2 Corinthians 13 and verse 11.
It says,
Finally, brothers,
continue to rejoice,
to be readjusted,
to be comforted,
to think in agreement,
to live peaceably,
and the God of love and of peace will be with you.
So, if you continue to rejoice in serving Jehovah,
what is the promise?
The promise is that the God of love and of peace will be with you.
With that in mind,
let's be determined to always rejoice.
In turn, Jehovah,
the happy God will always be with us.
Thank you, brother cook,
for giving us a preview of the convention program.
We certainly want to keep listening to this entire program,
so as not to miss any of what has been prepared.
People everywhere search for joy,
but many fail to find it.
Why?
How can true joy be found?
Please give attention to the first symposium of this convention.
Brother Leonard Myers,
a helper to the writing committee of the governing body,
will begin with the talk,
what contributes to joy?
A simple life.
Each speaker will then introduce the one to follow.
The opening song of our convention program
reminded us that our reasons for joy are abundant,
and that true joy is well-founded
with roots reaching deep in God's word.
Just as a tree anchors itself in the earth's nourishing soil,
so true joy is anchored in the sangs of Jehovah.
And those sangs promise us joy that will last forever.
But isn't it also true that Satan's world promises to give us joy?
Yet any measure of joy derive from things in Satan's world,
such as pursuing wealth, wrongdoing,
extreme views of work,
or friendships in the world,
is a false joy that is short-lived.
Think back to our illustration of the tree.
Can a tree survive if its roots have been poisoned with chemicals?
Of course not.
Well, how long will we experience joy
if we seek it in this poisonous world of Satan?
Not long at all.
This symposium will contrast what the world teaches about joy
with what God's word teaches.
As you listen and watch, consider these questions.
Why do the world's ways of finding joy not work?
And am I pursuing what truly contributes to joy?
In this talk, we'll discuss how pursuing a simple life
contributes to joy.
The world teaches that pursuing wealth and having money
will make you happy.
And an illustration of Jesus at Luke 12 highlights that point.
Please turn there with me.
Luke 12.
In the illustration, the land of a rich man produced well.
He planned on building bigger storehouses.
And notice Luke 12 verse 19 with the man said himself.
You have many good things stored up for many years.
Take it easy, eat, drink, enjoy yourself.
So the man thought that because of having many good things,
he could enjoy them for many years.
But notice what God told him according to verse 20.
Unreasonable one, this night they are demanding your life from you.
Who then is to have the things you stored up?
So in reality, the man's joy from pursuing wealth was short-lived.
To further illustrate this point, as you watch the following dramatization,
consider how a brother responds to an offer of more money
and how it affects his joy.
You wanted to see me?
Yeah, come on in and go ahead and close the door, please.
Thanks for coming up.
Yeah, absolutely.
And Ben, all of your projects have come in on schedule and under budget.
We're really impressed and we want to move you up to the management team.
Now, you had up the whole division to start.
Management team, I like the sound of that.
Not to mention the pay raise and the bonuses.
It did sound like a lot more work, but Victor was so positive.
There may be a little overtime here and there, but I wouldn't worry about it.
Not with your skill.
He told me I could think about it before deciding.
But come on, this was a no-brainer.
The new position was great.
And the money?
Well, that wasn't too bad either.
It was exciting to work directly with clients.
But the hours were crazy.
Our seldom the same.
We see an example of this in this week's Bible reading.
True worship, the right thing, was not easy.
But required hard work.
King Hezekiah demonstrated his zeal for sure.
So a question for the audience is, how could we explain this to someone?
Able, please.
Most nights, I was wiped out.
And I have to admit, even when I wasn't working, I was working.
As highlighted in the video, why will pursuing money not make us happy?
Because we wouldn't be following Jehovah's advice.
And that would cause us to fall into a snare or trap,
as mentioned at 1 Timothy 6 verse 9.
Without our even realizing it, that snare can consume our time.
Time that we need to be spending on spiritual things.
How was that shown in the video?
Well, the pay raise, bonuses, new car, and other things
may have made our brother happy for a short time.
However, did you notice how pursuing money was a snare for him?
Most nights, he was exhausted from working long hours.
He arrived late to the meeting and fell asleep.
And did you notice what happened to his participation in the field ministry,
the most important work on earth?
It suffered, didn't it?
He wasn't prepared, and he experienced interruptions from his workplace.
It's true that money is useful, and we need it to buy food, shelter, and clothing.
But trading spiritual things for wealth is always a poor investment.
On the other hand, a life focused on serving Jehovah is a simple life
that brings deep and lasting joy.
Jesus emphasized this in his words at Matthew 6.22.
If then your eye is focused, your whole body will be bright.
The basic meaning of the Greek word for focused is single or simple.
It can convey the idea of singleness of mind or devotion to one purpose.
For example, if we focus our life on material things,
they could take up a lot of our time and energy,
and we may not take time to pray, study, or preach.
How much better to follow Jesus' instruction and keep our life simple?
By focusing on putting God's service first in our life, we'll have true joy.
As you watch the following dramatization, consider how our brother gains joy
when he makes a different decision.
We're really impressed, and we want to move you up to the management team.
Now, you'll head up the whole division to start.
Victor's offer really took me by surprise, and wow, the perks were tempting.
But I knew there was a lot at stake.
So I told him I talked to Lisa and get back to him tomorrow.
What was this job going to mean for our spiritual goals?
Would we still be able to keep our life simple?
Were we ready to trade our time together as a family for more money?
The next day, I told Victor how much I appreciated the opportunity,
but felt that it just wasn't the right fit for our family.
Money was tight, but we were okay.
We had what we needed, saying no to that promotion,
meant holding off on a few upgrades.
But it also meant more time for meeting preparation,
more time for the ministry, and more time for each other.
Did you notice the happiness of our brother and his family
when he decided to live a simple life?
But why does a simple life bring us happiness?
Ecclesiastes chapter 5 verse 12 highlights one reason.
Let's look at that together.
Ecclesiastes chapter 5 verse 12.
Why does a simple life bring us happiness?
The verse says,
Sweet is the sleep of the one serving,
whether he eats little or much,
but the plenty belonging to the rich one does not permit him to sleep.
So those who possess much may be anxious about losing their possessions
and thus lose sleep worrying about them.
In contrast, those with little materially have less to worry about
and they can enjoy as the verse says, sweet sleep.
The point,
when we refuse to allow material things to interfere
with our sacred service, we gain satisfaction, peace, and joy.
So if you're presented with an offer like the one given to our brother in the video,
what should you do?
First, pray.
Pray for help to make a decision that will be pleasing to Jehovah.
Then ask yourself, will this decision complicate my life?
And how will this affect the time I spend serving Jehovah?
Questions like those helped our brother in the video to make a decision that brought great joy.
Remember, any decision you make that promotes a simple life focused on serving Jehovah
will lead to joy that is well-founded,
with roots reaching deep in God's Word.
May all of us attain the true joy that comes from living a simple life.
But a simple life is not the only thing that leads to joy.
Listen as Brother Robert Saranko, a helper to the writing committee,
now considers the next talk of this symposium.
What contributes to joy? A clean conscience.
What would you do if you were tempted or pressured to commit some sort of wrongdoing?
There are many people in the world who would give in to the temptation or the pressure,
especially if they felt that they could benefit in some way,
and they thought no one would find out about it.
But would doing that really contribute to a person's joy?
In the previous talk, we saw a dramatization of a brother named Ben.
At first, he chose to accept a promotion at work that put him under great stress.
Let's take another look at him in that position,
and see how he handles things when his boss pressures him to be dishonest.
Hey Ben, looks like you forgot to sign off from the job order.
Actually, these failed that quality inspection, remember?
Yeah, but I like two chances of a point.
Yeah, I already talked Steve about replacing the components,
and we're going to get that order adjusted,
and I'll have a new one for you on your desk tomorrow afternoon.
Ben, there's no time for that.
This is a huge account.
If you don't sign off on this, you'd be hurting the whole company.
What?
Victor, I'm...
I'm not sure that I'm really comfortable bypassing the inspection when...
Ben, I might ask you to tell some big lie.
This is a technicality.
Remember, a good quarter means good bonuses for everyone, including you.
I didn't want to do it.
But the last thing that Lisa and I needed was for me to lose my job.
I really didn't have a choice.
They can't believe you.
I kept telling myself that it was no big deal.
All lies are bad.
Even little ones.
One lie leads to another, and they cause much harm.
It's simple, right?
Jehovah's people always tell the truth.
Did you hear what Ben said?
I kept telling myself that it was no big deal.
But if that were really true, then why was he so uncomfortable about what he had done?
It is because wrongdoing does not lead to true joy.
Ben's conscience was not clean.
It was telling him Jehovah's people always tell the truth.
And what is the conscience?
A young boy was asked that question, and he said,
When you're good, you don't even know you have it.
But when you're bad, it hurts.
Another child said that in her head there was a green light and a red light,
and that when she was told to do something that she knew was wrong,
the red light would flash.
Well, they both had the right idea.
Our conscience is our inner sense of right and wrong that Jehovah instilled in us.
And the Bible says it is like a law written in the human heart.
Speaking of people in general, look at what Romans 2.15 says as it explains the function of the conscience.
That's Romans 2.15.
They are the very ones who demonstrate the matter of the law to be written in their hearts,
while their conscience is bearing witness with them,
and by their own thoughts they are being accused or even excused.
Jehovah gave us a conscience so that we can evaluate any situation that arises in life,
make a right choice, and then judge ourselves afterward on the choice we made.
If we allow ourselves to do what we know is wrong, our conscience will surely strike us.
Then if we repeatedly ignore our conscience, it will malfunction and become insensitive,
and it will not recognize dangers that could damage our relationship with Jehovah.
The first time a person does something he knows he should not do,
his conscience may prick him and he may feel guilty.
But if he does it again and again, his conscience will gradually fail to respond,
and he may get involved in even more serious wrongdoing,
seemingly small compromises often lead to larger ones,
and larger compromises further distance people from the happy God.
And that leads to feelings of worthlessness and heartache,
whereas a clean conscience that results from obeying Jehovah brings us self-respect,
personal dignity, and real joy.
Now, how can we safeguard our conscience so that it is always clean?
By studying Bible principles and meditating on how to apply them,
so that when we are faced with important decisions,
we will know how to respond in a way that will contribute to our joy.
We have to sensitize our conscience by learning and loving Jehovah's view of what is right
and what is wrong, and being convinced that living in harmony with his standards
is the best way of life.
And that is how the Psalmist David felt.
If you'd like to turn to Psalm 19 verse 8, Psalm 19 verse 8, he wrote,
The orders from Jehovah are righteous, causing the heart to rejoice.
The commandment of Jehovah is clean, making the eyes shine.
So maintaining a clean conscience in all areas of our daily life will bring us joy in our use of alcohol,
in business dealings, with entertainment choices, and in our dealings with the opposite sex.
And when we have a clean conscience as Jehovah's people, we are not ashamed to give a witness to others.
As the Apostle Paul wrote at 2 Corinthians 1-12,
we can boast that our conscience bears witness that we have conducted ourselves in the world
with holiness and godly sincerity.
At times, it takes real courage to be honest and to face whatever consequences may come our way.
As you watch the following dramatization, see how Ben benefits from being honest.
Hey, hobby.
Hey, Ben. How you doing? Good. How's the job going?
Oh, machines running great. Ben, I did have a question on the specs for the hair of the job. Can we take a quick look?
Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
You need a hand?
No, I'm good.
What happened, guys?
We got to do something out.
Okay, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Did...
I'm pretty sure that...
I would just say it stopped working.
Whatever you do, don't tell Victor what happened.
We just got this set up last month.
Why would it just stop working?
It could happen.
Ugh.
You can actually smell the coffee.
I'll talk to Victor.
Don't throw yourself under the bus, man.
We'll help you get this cleaned up. No one will have to know.
This is one of the most expensive units in the shop.
You take the blame?
And you just make yourself look bad.
No, it's okay.
It was a mistake.
I'll explain it.
We need to get this back online.
In the end, I think Victor actually appreciated my honesty.
And he wasn't the only one.
Mark had some questions.
And we had a great discussion.
This time, instead of his conscience troubling him,
Ben had a real peace of mind.
He also gained the trust and respect of others.
How can you have a clean conscience?
By being determined, as Hebrews 13-18 says,
to conduct yourselves honestly in all things,
whether other humans are aware of your good conduct or not.
Then, you can sleep each night with the satisfaction of knowing
Jehovah is pleased with you.
As they say, there is no pillow so soft as a clean conscience.
It rewards us with peace of mind and joy.
Besides a clean conscience, what else brings true joy?
Listen, as Brother William Mallenfant,
the helper to the teaching committee,
considers the next talk of the symposium.
What contributes to joy?
Meaningful work.
Work is a gift from God.
And his inspired word tells us to be balanced in our view of work.
However, the world teaches extreme views of work
that are contrary to God's view.
Some have the view that work should be avoided at all costs,
and they work hard at not working.
Others have the view that the more you work, the happier you will be.
As you watch the following dramatization,
notice how our brother's emphasis on secular work
actually robs him of joy.
The company took on new clients this year,
and I knew that Victor was really depending on me
to keep things on schedule.
I didn't want to let him down.
So I stepped up and took on the overtime hours.
I figured it was temporary.
And I even got to take home a bigger paycheck.
The problem is,
that's not all I took home.
By the end of each week,
I was burned out.
And the weekends?
Well,
they weren't really any better.
In fact,
I spent a lot of Saturdays back at the office.
The project took a lot longer than I thought.
That pretty much took out field service and the meetings.
But I knew that management would be impressed.
That machine is essential so I can get these parts.
I got the reports in right on time.
Look, this is costing a lot of money.
I got a first quarter that I have to meet
and without this,
it's going to kill me.
You know, we had a contract that you were supposed to...
Like I said, I don't care about you.
I was working harder than ever.
And in the end,
I'm not sure anyone even cared.
We know that being industrious
and working hard is good.
But what did our brother and the video experience
when he adopted the world's extreme view of work?
Did it make him happier?
If we put secular work above everything else,
we could lose out unneeded rest and spiritual pursuits.
Our brother in the video sacrificed precious time with his family
and activity with the congregation
because he did not have a balanced view of secular work.
Read with me what Ecclesiastes,
chapter 4, and verse 6 indicates
about being balanced, Ecclesiastes 4.6.
Better is a handful of rest
than two handfuls of hard work.
And notice what it adds.
And chasing after the wind.
Chasing after the wind is an exercise in futility.
You can't catch the wind and hold on to it.
A person who was a workaholic
may never enjoy the fruitage of his labor
if his work consumes all his time and energy.
His work can become as pointless as chasing after the wind.
We accept to enjoy our obligation
to provide for ourselves and those who depend on us.
But we also need to remember
that there is more to life than work.
Jehovah gives us the instructions we need
to have a balanced life and have a proper view of work.
For example, the Bible encourages us
to work hard at what we do to make a living.
And meaningful secular work can bring us joy
and feeling of accomplishment.
Whatever we do, we want to do it well.
Also as Ephesians 4.28 says,
doing good work allows us to have something to share
with someone in need.
But we are advised in Scripture
to make sure of the more important things
and the most important work we can do is stated clearly
in 1 Corinthians chapter 15, verse 58.
Please read with me 1 Corinthians 1558.
Therefore, my beloved brothers,
be steadfast, immovable,
always having plenty to do in the work of the Lord,
knowing that your labor is not in vain
in connection with the Lord.
Having plenty to do in the work of the Lord is good for us.
And it is pleasing to Jehovah.
As you watch the following dramatization,
see how our brother benefits
from working hard at his secular job
and in spiritual pursuits.
It had been a busy week.
But the weekend was going to be even busier
and better.
But first, I needed to make an important stop.
Hey John, how are you feeling?
Ben, how are you doing?
Good, good.
This illness had been so hard on John and Sandy.
I couldn't even imagine what they were going through.
It was so encouraging to see John's positive attitude.
The next day, we had a fantastic conversation in the ministry.
Then, Tom and I finally figured out that glitch in the AV system.
Okay Tom, go ahead and hit play.
It's played.
Okay.
Everything looked and sounded great.
We definitely were busy.
But in the best way possible.
Doing things that really mattered.
And for people who love Jehovah.
We saw a balanced and joyful man in that video.
Our brother worked hard at his secular job
because it allowed him to provide for his family's physical needs.
Did you notice in the video that the brother had a picture of his family at his workplace?
It was a nice reminder of one of the reasons why he was working hard.
True, it may be that you work at a job you don't particularly enjoy doing.
Nevertheless, you work hard and give it your best
because you're doing it for your family and for Jehovah.
And when you do your job well,
the truth is that you can find pleasure in it or at least in what it provides.
Doing the work of the Lord includes work that we do in behalf of the congregation.
We experience the greater happiness that comes from giving as stated at Acts 2035.
Did our brother in the video that we just observed give of himself to the congregation?
Yes, he did.
He took the time to visit a brother in the hospital.
And we know that such visits are truly appreciated.
And he participated in the ministry to spread the good news of the kingdom.
He helped out at the kingdom hall to get the audio video set up working.
Like him, we make ourselves available for whatever has to be done to care for kingdom interests.
At the end of the day, our brother was with his family and friends probably very tired,
but it was a good tired.
He was enjoying a period of relaxation and personal satisfaction.
Yes, all of his hard work brought him genuine happiness.
Truly, as Jehovah's servants,
all of us want to be busy in the best ways possible.
Jehovah created us to enjoy both work and leisure as stated at Ecclesiastes 313.
That everyone should eat and drink and find enjoyment for all his hard work.
It is the gift of God.
Keep your life balanced and you will enjoy all of the work you do even more.
Please listen, as Brother James Mans, a helper to the writing committee, now considers the final talk of this symposium.
What contributes to joy? True friendships.
Thanks to modern technology, people the world over say that they have more friends than ever.
All they have to do is add a person's name to their list of friends on a social network.
Some boast of having hundreds, even thousands of such friends.
Others don't have access to the internet, so they make friends the old fashioned way.
At work, at school, or in the neighborhood.
Having good friends is very important, so we need to ask ourselves,
what is true friendship? Where should I look for true friends?
How can my choice of friends affect my joy?
As you watch the following dramatization,
think about the effect our brother's choice of friends has on his joy.
And believe me, that's not the only dirt I have on Victor.
Okay, we're listening.
So last week he's talking in his office, right?
And he has no idea that I'm standing right there, and he's bragging to his buddy.
I really didn't want to hear this.
Lunch with them seemed harmless, but this was anything but a building.
Hey, hey, check out these guys.
It's the viable people.
Uh-oh, don't look now. They have someone.
They might try to convert us to.
What is the deal with these people?
I mean, it's cool if you want to believe in fairy tales and everything,
but keep it to yourself, right?
Exactly.
Those carts are everywhere.
They're all over the city.
I couldn't finish my lunch.
I had never noticed how sarcastic and negative my co-workers could be.
I had always thought of them as, well, as friends.
But what kind of friends was I making?
Did you see the brother's face at the end of the video?
He didn't look very happy.
Why not?
The associations seemed harmless.
Workmates were just taking their lunch break together.
But their conversation went in a negative direction.
They began talking about finding dirt on a fellow worker.
Then it got personal.
His co-workers started to make fun of the witnesses who were preaching using a cart.
Please open your Bibles to Proverbs chapter 19.
We're going to read three verses here.
And these verses reveal the disappointing reality of looking to the world
as a source of true friends.
Proverbs chapter 19 will start with verse 4 and then read verses 6 and 7.
Well, if the tracks many friends, but the poor man will be deserted even by his friend.
Many seek the favor of a noble, and everyone is a friend of the man who gives gifts.
All the brothers of a poor man hate him.
How much more he is shunned by his friends.
He pursues them with request, but no one responds.
Friendships in the world are often based on selfish motives.
As verse 4 says, wealth attracts friends.
Poverty drives them away.
Such friendships can be shallow, and they can end abruptly.
142-year-old woman had over a thousand friends on her social network.
Yet not one of those friends responded to her plea for help.
Just before she took her own life.
Friendships with the world are not only disappointing, but they can also damage our relationship with Jehovah.
With good reason, the footnote to 1 Corinthians chapter 15 verse 33 warns us,
bad associations corrupt good morals.
Cultivating friendships with people who do not serve Jehovah
is like trying to mix oil with water.
It just doesn't work.
Why not?
Because the scriptures teach that true friends can be found only among Jehovah's people.
Our Christian Brotherhood is the only place where we can find friends like the one described at Proverbs chapter 18 verse 24.
Please open to that scripture.
And notice the distinction between a companion and a true friend.
Proverbs chapter 18 verse 24 reads,
there are companions ready to crush one another, but there is a friend who sticks closer than a brother.
Our Christian brothers and sisters are not simply companions or acquaintances, someone we happen to know.
They are loyal friends.
We can rely on them.
Why?
Is it because we're all the same age?
Is it because we come from the same national, economic or social background?
No.
Our friends in the Christian congregation stick closer than a brother because they share our faith, our values, our love for Jehovah and our hopes.
They work with us side by side in the ministry.
They support us when we're discouraged or when we're facing a trial.
They rejoice with us when we have good times together in Jehovah's service.
And the true friendships that we enjoy now in the Christian congregation are going to last forever.
Do you remember the brother having lunch with his workmates?
In the following dramatization, watch his face closely and notice how having true friends affected his joy.
I was so glad I had taken a day off from work.
How long had it been since Lisa and I got to spend a whole day together in midweek service?
Lisa started a Bible study and we got to share our day with good friends.
People like Sam and Chloe, they've really been there for us through the ups and downs.
Is that you? What are you doing over there?
Did you guys know about this?
I don't know where we'd be if Jehovah hadn't helped us to keep our priorities straight.
Keeping our life simple, having a clean conscience,
staying focused on work that has real meaning, and having real friends.
What more can you ask for?
Isn't that the way we feel after we spend time with our true friends in the congregation?
What is it about our brothers and sisters that makes those friendships so special, so precious?
Why do those friendships bring us so much joy?
Because our friendship is based on a solid foundation.
Even when we meet a fellow witness for the first time, we already know a lot about each other.
Think about all the things we share in common.
We worship the only true God, Jehovah.
We speak the same pure language of truth.
We adhere to Jehovah's high moral standards, and we have the same hope for the future.
These things are the foundation of a relationship built on confidence and trust, a true friendship.
What a contrast to people who do not know Jehovah.
Whether their friendships are formed online, at work, at school, or in the neighborhood.
Friendships in the world are often based on shared interest.
However, true friendships are based on common values.
Please open to Proverbs 17, verse 17.
And notice the kind of friendships we will enjoy when they are based on spiritual values.
Proverbs 17, verse 17.
A true friend shows love at all times, and is a brother who is born for times of distress.
True friends support one another, physically, emotionally, and spiritually.
And our true friendships make a valuable contribution to our joy.
People everywhere want to be happy, but many fail to find true joy because they are looking in the wrong place.
As we have discussed in this symposium, the world claims that we can be happy if we pursue wealth, if we engage in sinful conduct,
if we adopt extreme views of work, or if we cultivate friendships anywhere we can find them.
Such assertions originate with the ruler of the world, the father of the lie, Satan the devil.
If we look for happiness in Satan's world, we are going to be disappointed.
In contrast, this first symposium of our always rejoiced convention has identified four factors that contribute to our lasting joy.
God's word teaches us that joy comes from first living a simple life, second having a clean conscience, third doing meaningful work, and fourth having true friendships.
Our loving father, Jehovah, knows what makes us truly happy.
So may we continue to follow his sound advice.
If we do, we will find abundant joy that lasts forever.
Thank you, brothers, for highlighting how God's word guides us to a way of life that is truly joyful.
We now invite all who are able to do so to stand and sing song number 89 entitled Listen, Obey, and Be Blessed.
After the song, you may wish to remain standing for some announcements.
Again, that song number 89.